Further expand `TRANSLATING.md` with more tips and guidance (#1483)
withastro/docs: TRANSLATING.md

## Getting involved

> To get involved in our translation efforts, we **highly recommend** joining our Discord chat](https://astro.build/chat) first. This way, we can get you up to speed with our process and give you the opportunity to chat with your language's translation team.

Reviewer: Broken link tag!

```suggestion
To get involved in our translation efforts, we **highly recommend** [joining our Discord chat](https://astro.build/chat) first. This way, we can get you up to speed with our process and give you the opportunity to chat with your language's translation team.
```

> Most of our internationalization decisions and discussions happen on Discord. So, it's the best way to find out which patterns and recommendations your language's translation team follows before making your own PRs. You can even become a part of the decision-making process.

Reviewer: “so” is more of a conjunction, so we could either elide these first two sentences, or I think just break them up a little differently. How does this feel?

```suggestion
Most of our internationalization decisions and discussions happen on Discord. Joining us there is the best way to find out which patterns and recommendations your language's translation team follows before making your own PRs. You can even become a part of the decision-making process.
```

> Can’t access Discord? Please [open a new issue](https://github.com/withastro/docs/issues/new/choose) here on GitHub to ask any questions you may have.

### How can I help translate/review one of the supported languages?

Translations all live in this GitHub repository. You can add and update them by creating a pull request or reviewing pending translations in the "Pull Requests" tab. Read on to find out more!

### How can I find out what needs to be reviewed/translated?

> To find translations pending review, you can simply filter through this repo's [Pull Requests with the i18n label](https://github.com/withastro/docs/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Ai18n).

Reviewer: In general, we try to avoid judgements like “simply” as they might imply something should be simple to do, which can be frustrating if someone is not finding it simple! I’d suggest removing that in this case.

```suggestion
To find translations pending review, you can filter through this repo's [Pull Requests with the i18n label](https://github.com/withastro/docs/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Ai18n).
```

Author: oh, good point!

## Getting involved

> To get involved in our translation efforts, we **highly recommend** to [join our Discord chat](https://astro.build/chat) first. This way, we can get you up to speed with our process and give you the opportunity to chat with your language's translation team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get involved in our translation efforts, we **highly recommend** joining our Discord chat](https://astro.build/chat) first. This way, we can get you up to speed with our process and give you the opportunity to chat with your language's translation team.
```

> It's there that most of our internationalization decisions and discussions happen, so it's also a great opportunity to know what patterns and recommendations your language's translation team has before making your own PRs!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of our internationalization decisions and discussions happen on Discord. So, it's the best way to find out which patterns and recommendations your language's translation team follows before making your own PRs. You can even become a part of the decision-making process.
```

> Can’t access Discord? Please [open a new issue](https://github.com/withastro/docs/issues/new/choose) here on GitHub to ask any questions you may have.

### How can I help translate/review one of the supported languages?

Translations all live in this GitHub repository. You can add and update them by creating a pull request or reviewing pending translations in the "Pull Requests" tab. Read on to find out more!

### How can I find out what needs to be reviewed/translated?

To find translations pending review, you can simply filter through this repo's [Pull Requests with the i18n label](https://github.com/withastro/docs/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Ai18n).

> See our automated [Translation Status Overview issue](https://github.com/withastro/docs/issues/438) for a quick list of which pages are missing or need updating.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See our automated [Translation Status Overview issue](https://github.com/withastro/docs/issues/438) for a quick list of which pages are missing a translation or need updating to match a change to the English version.
```

> **Warning**

> > Please do not translate any pages without first checking their status in our [Overview Issue](https://github.com/withastro/docs/issues/438)! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Please do not translate any pages without first checking their status in our [Overview Issue](https://github.com/withastro/docs/issues/438)! If a page is not listed here as needing a translation or an update, we can not accept your PR.
```

> Not every page is marked as "ready to translate." So, even if you find a page that is not yet translated on the Docs site, you must confirm that it is on the list of available pages to translate. If the page doesn't have a "Translate this page" button in the Docs site nor contains the `i18nReady: true` frontmatter property in its Markdown file, do not translate the document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not every page is marked as "ready to translate." So, even if you find a page that is not yet translated on the Docs site, you must first confirm that it is on the list of available pages to translate. Do not translate documents that are missing:

- A "Translate this page" button in the Docs site.
- The `i18nReady: true` frontmatter property in its Markdown file.
```

    ➤ Go to `src/pages/{language}/{page-slug}.md`

## Contributing to translations
# Contributing to translations

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about contributing via a fork, our Style Guide, and more!

> ---

Reviewer: I wonder if we want to move all the Translation Tips _above_ “Adding a new language”? That section is really only aimed at maintainers, so might be better to relegate it to the bottom of the document.

Author: Yeah, "Adding a new language" is more of a one-time thing, but Review/Translation Tips can be revisited many times by contributors, so I agree with moving these up!

    ➤ Go to `src/pages/{language}/{page-slug}.md`

# Contributing to translations

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about contributing via a fork, our Style Guide, and more!

## Review Tips

> Reviewing PRs is an important task — it's thanks to them that we can guarantee consistent, high-quality translations, so if you're interested in helping review translation PRs, thank you, we really appreciate the effort!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We love our reviewers! Reviewing PRs is an important task — it's thanks to the efforts of our reviewers that we can guarantee consistent, high-quality translations. Many projects track PRs that you submit, but we also celebrate review stats, visible on your very own [Astro Badge](https://astro.badg.es)! Visit our Discord and you'll see that we shout out every PR merged with a list contributors who helped with review comments.

We even have an entire section in our Maintainer's Guide about [how to manually add reviewer's names to commit messages](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md#getting-co-authored-by-commit-message-name-and-email) before merging in case they are not automatically included!

So, if you're interested in helping review translation PRs, thank you! We really appreciate the effort, and we put an effort into showing it!
```

> **When you think a PR is good to be merged**, approve the PR through GitHub's "Review Changes" button or leave a "**LGTM!**" in the comments. (“LGTM” is an abbreviation of “Looks Good to Me” often used to approve pull requests.)

Reviewer 2: I think I would put this after the checklist, since approving it happens AFTER they've gone through the checklist!

Author: Fair point! Just applied this change

Learn more about [how to review and suggest changes](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/reviewing-proposed-changes-in-a-pull-request) on GitHub Docs.

### Checklist

> It can be confusing to know what exactly should be reviewed, so here are some questions you can ask yourself while reviewing translations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be confusing to know what exactly should be reviewed! Mostly, what we are looking for is another pair of eyes to catch any obvious mistakes. If that is all you do, you have been a HUGE help!

Just ask yourself: does anything seem "out of place" or "unusual" when I read it? Are there typos or any unusual words choices that I would not expect to read? This might not mean the translation is "wrong" but *is* worth mentioning if a word choice is distracting when reading documentation.

If you want to take your reviews to the next level, here are some more questions you can ask yourself while reviewing translations:
```

## Translation Tips

### Language-specific Guides (Glossary & Style Guide)

> Translators are free to create and mantain a glossary, style guide and other tips for their language's translation squad. This is a great way of making translations consistent across contributors and centralize team decisions. You can find it (or create it) inside the language's `i18n` folder as a `README.md` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Translators are free to create and mantain a glossary, style guide and other tips for their language's translation squad. This is a great way to keep translations consistent across contributors and to centralize team decisions. You can find it (or create it) inside the language's `i18n` folder as a `README.md` file.
```

// Rest of the file's content is here...
```

### Code Samples

> We have lots of code samples throughout our docs, and although we **recommend translating comments**, as they give a contextual clue of what's happening in the code, each language is **free to decide** if they want or not to translate titles, variables, string values, function names, etc.
> 
> Be aware that if code samples are being translated, you may need to update some of the code sample's highlighted lines. Read the [Code Samples section](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/WRITING.md#code-samples) in our Writing Guide to know more about our syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have lots of code samples throughout our docs, and although we **recommend translating comments**, as they give a contextual clue of what's happening in the code, each language is **free to decide** whether or not they want to translate titles, variables, string values, function names, etc.

Be aware that if code samples are being translated, you may need to update some of the code sample's highlighted lines. Read the [Code Samples section](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/WRITING.md#code-samples) in our Writing Guide to know more about our syntax.
```

// Rest of the file's content is here...
```

### Code Samples

We have lots of code samples throughout our docs, and although we **recommend translating comments**, as they give a contextual clue of what's happening in the code, each language is **free to decide** if they want or not to translate titles, variables, string values, function names, etc.

> Be wary that if code samples are being translated, you may need to update some of the code sample's highlighted lines. Read the [Code Samples section](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/WRITING.md#code-samples) in our Writing Guide to know more about our syntax.

Reviewer: I think “aware” might be better here; “wary” implies more “be fearful” (which depends on how you feel about Hippo’s code highlighting syntax 😆)

```suggestion
Be aware that if code samples are being translated, you may need to update some of the code sample's highlighted lines. Read the [Code Samples section](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/WRITING.md#code-samples) in our Writing Guide to know more about our syntax.
```

However, these pages are translated directly here and **these warnings are not meant for translations**.

For these generated pages (like `configuration-reference.md`), we recommend **ignoring and removing the note and component (including its import) from the file**, thus avoiding confusion for other translators thinking that this warning applies to translations as well.

> ## Review Tips

Reviewer: Thinking about priorities again, maybe we want to move this even _above_ Translation Tips?

Author: Moved!

Reviewing PRs is also an important task — it's thanks to them that we can guarantee consistent, high-quality translations, so if you're interested in helping review translation PRs, thank you, we really appreciate the effort!

> **When you think a PR is good to be merged**, approve the PR through GitHub's "Review Changes" button or leave a "**LGTM!**" in the comments.

Reviewer: Do you think it would be helpful to explain what LGTM means? (I half thought about mentioning our other fun versions of LGTM, but maybe in this guide it’s best to be clear and simple.)

```suggestion
**When you think a PR is good to be merged**, approve the PR through GitHub's "Review Changes" button or leave a "**LGTM!**" in the comments. (“LGTM” is an abbreviation of “Looks Good to Me” often used to approve pull requests.)
```

Author: I don't see why not. Sure could help someone that isn't familiarized with the abbreviation, good idea!

Learn more about [how to review and suggest changes](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/reviewing-proposed-changes-in-a-pull-request) on GitHub Docs.

### Checklist

It can be confusing to know what exactly should be reviewed, so here are some questions you can ask yourself while reviewing translations:

- Is the translation correctly written following the translated language's norms and practices?
- Did the translation deviate from the original in a way that important information is being missed somehow?
- Is the translation consistent with the language's style guide and glossary?
- Are there any UI labels or content missing translation?
- Are the custom components, asides, and code samples being properly displayed in the Deploy Preview?
- Does the code samples' titles, syntax highlighting (like `js` or `astro`), and highlighted lines match the English version?

> - Are there any links that could be localized? (e.g. Wikipedia and MDN links)

Reviewer: Love this list. Super helpful!
